hi I'm Alexa and I'm going to share with
you some thoughts on barefoot running
this is a book that I just read called
barefoot running simple and I've been
doing it for about a year the reason I
started is because two reasons when I
saw some crazy people in my neighborhood
doing it and I thought look at those
crazy people running barefoot and the
other reason is because I hurt myself
actually two years ago running a
marathon the Oakland marathon running
downhill down lake in really fast and I
was already feeling my IT band starting
to hurt and by the time I got to the
bottom of the hill which was mile 11 I
was in terrible pain for my right IT
band it's funny because now I don't
remember what that feels like because
the problem then transferred to my left
hip which is also IT band because I
changed my stride and proceeded to run
another 15 miles 15.2 miles with this
terrible pain so don't ever do that
point number one because you'll spend
years recovering from it but then as a
result I should have kept on trying to
find different ways after I more or less
recovered to improve my stride and and
stop having the IT band problems and I
came across barefoot running and being a
cheapskate and also being a fashionista
and a frugal ISTA I refused to buy those
ugly-ass shoes called Vibrams and so I
started running in the neighborhood and
just barefoot and it turns out that that
is the way to do it you start without
any shoes on because if you start with
some Vibrams or something you're gonna
keep on running you know you're gonna go
slap slap slap and you're not improving
anything what you want to do is do that
ginger barefoot method of running that's
that's what you're trying to do is is
change your your running form to that
ginger barefoot front forefoot form so
anyway over time I built up my strength
in my feet and then now actually I can
run somewhat on trails I can't run on
rocky things I can't really run on
falta can run on sidewalk I do a lot of
beach running and grass running and I
really enjoy it I've saved probably
almost $300 in running shoes and I also
just wanted to share a funny thing
though I'm reading this book barefoot
running it was kind of inspiring there's
some good stuff in here but let me say
there is some pseudoscience in here for
example these guys say that running
rounds you and I experienced this one
time I was running on the sidewalk in
and a man came up to me and asked me why
I was running barefoot people love to
ask you you know why you're barefoot and
he said are you doing it to ground
yourself to the Earth's energy and like
no I never heard that
well this book made me realize why
people would say that here they say the
earth has a frequency or heartbeat
called the Schumann residence at
approximately seven point eight three
Hertz and this is the frequency our
brains used to survive and thrive and
NASA scientists have known this for
years in early space space missions
astronauts became surprisingly we can
ill when they went into space and left
the residents of the earth behind they
now alleviate this distress by having a
vibrational device attached to the
ship's that resonates at the Schumann
residence matching the frequency of the
earth
so I read this and they got they also
recommend you know you stand on some
kind of freaking charge mat or something
like that in your house to justify your
balance your energy and all that and I'm
thinking come on humans that have worn
shoes for hundreds and hundreds of years
so I think this concept of grounding
yourself to the earth
now dezerter's in the back that you're
touching the ground all the time
touching grounded things seems
ridiculous and then this idea that
there's some sort of resonance and that
they they're putting it on ships
spaceships really intrigued me so I
googled it and sure enough this is
completely false there is no such device
on these spaceships
and and the wall the residents the
Schumann residence does exist actually
somewhere in the atmosphere between the
atmosphere and the Earth's surface
something like that anyway it's neither
here nor there with running barefoot so
in short I would say run barefoot if you
would like to rediscover a sort of a
forefoot mid foot way of running instead
of a heel strike run barefoot carefully
if you are baby recovering from some
long-standing injuries and need to find
a different way to run because it's more
energy conserving and finally run
barefoot just because it's absolutely
joyful and fun and silly and it makes
you feel like a kid and you'll save
money on running shoes but don't run
barefoot to grind yourself to the earth
or so that your body doesn't implode
like some space it's basically because
that's just pseudoscience so if you must
buy Vibrams I guess go ahead and buy
rhymers but why not just run barefoot
and enjoy life don't hurt yourself put
on shoes when you need to put on shoes
don't run over hot coals or glass or
rocks but enjoy life thank you